Weather script

Background
Time and gps based dataset from Android camera attached to vehicle. Consists of 
directory separated based on ranges of time and geographical coordinates. Each 
directory contains a video file, images, and other text files (with gps etc. data).
 
Task
Add new file with relevant weather details to each directory in dataset.

Goal of the Project
Write script that automates the process of accessing directories, and for each 
directory, gets relevant weather data, and writes new file with this data.

Technologies Used
Used Forecast.io API to get weather data using get requests. Used Python to 
accomplish tasks, and bash scripting for automating task for all directories. 

Approach
I looked into various weather APIs. I found a comprehensive blog post that covers a 
bunch of other Weather APIs. I worked with a couple APIs including Weather 
Underground, before finally picking Forecast.io. 

I wrote Python files to get and parse the weather data, and write it to a new file in 
the directory. Finally, I wrote a bash script to run the files over all directories.

Instructions
The final script is called weathr.sh. The script uses 2 other python files: get.py, and 
parse.py. These files need to be in the same directory as the data-set directory 
(referred to as ?video-data? in the example).

Run weathr.sh with the path name of the directory as the command line argument.
Example:

List files:

$ ls
weathr.sh
parse.py
get.py
video-data

Error case (Missing argument):
 
$ weathr.sh
Error. Enter path name

Successful case:

$ weathr.sh video-data
20130531_080242_028
Processing...
done task 
?
Forecast.io
Clean and simple to use, reliable sources of data, and offers a good price versus 
number of calls deal for our purpose of our project. 

How it works
The API uses a JSON interface. The Forecast API lets you query for most locations on 
the globe.

There are two main API calls. The first is used for the current forecast. The second 
lets you query for a specific time, past or future (for many places, 60 years in the 
past to 10 years in the future). We use the second query for our task:

https://api.forecast.io/forecast/APIKEY/LATITUDE,LONGI
TUDE,TIME

Currently, the parse file parses for selected properties: timezone, current time, 
current temperature, current cloud cover, current precipitation intensity, and a 
human readable summary text. 

There are other properties such as rain intensity offered by the API [1]. These can 
also be parsed by changing the parse.py file accordingly, in keeping with the JSON 
format.

Line 1 is the actual data, and line 2 is the corresponding keywords. Contents of a 
sample final weather.txt file:

1370001600 71.13 0.06 0 Clear
time temperature cloudCover precipIntensity summary

Raw Data Sources
Forecast.io uses a wide range of data sources, which are aggregated together 
statistically to provide the most accurate forecast possible for a given location. Their 
sources include private weather forecasting system and public or government 
organizations. [2]

Pricing and Limitations 
The first thousand API calls made per day, are. Every 10,000 API calls after that cost 
$1. However, we are expecting to make less than thousand calls in a day. [3]

?
Links

1. List of parameters offered by the forecat.io API 
https://developer.forecast.io/docs/v2#time_call
2. Full list of raw data sources used by forecast.io 
http://forecast.io/raw/
3. Complete forecast.io Terms of Use
https://developer.forecast.io/terms_of_use.txt

Appendix
Relevant files:
1. weathr.sh
2. get.py
3. parse.py

Project
Road Surface Distress Detection, Robotics Institute

For questions or suggestions, contact
Sobhagya Jose
sjose@cmu.edu


5

